Write the Go 1.0 article (#19)
wasmerio/wasmer.io: _posts/wasmer-go-embedding-1.0.md

---
title: 'Wasmer Go embedding 1.0 liftoff'
excerpt: 'Announcing the immediate availability of the Wasmer Go embedding 1.0 version!'
date: '2021-02-22T15:35:07.322Z'
author: Ivan Enderlin
---

> We are delighted to announce the availability of the [Wasmer Go

Author: :+1:

embedding 1.0 version](https://github.com/wasmerio/wasmer-go).

> About 1.5 years ago we first release `wasmer-go`, the Wasmer embedding

Author: :+1:

for Go. The reception by the community was beyond our expectations,

> the repercussion of launching [the fastest WebAssembly runtime for

Author: I reformulate as:

> The reception by the community was beyond our expectations,
the response to our launch of [the fastest WebAssembly runtime for
Go](https://medium.com/wasmer/announcing-the-fastest-webassembly-runtime-for-go-wasmer-19832d77c050)
was a great way to start!

Go](https://medium.com/wasmer/announcing-the-fastest-webassembly-runtime-for-go-wasmer-19832d77c050)

> was a great way to start! A community of more than 1'300 people gives

Author: Number separator is a mess. In Europe Latin countries in general (except English, more or less), if you use a comma, it's for decimal separation, so 4,2 is 4.2 in English.

I'm used to use a ' for the grouping separator so that it makes everything unambiguous. But it's not what Wikipedia recommends: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Manual_of_Style/Dates_and_numbers#Grouping_of_digits:

> Numbers with exactly four digits left of the decimal point may optionally be grouped (either 1,250 or 1250), with consistency within any given article.

OK, let's use 1,300 then :-)!

> us the energy to push this project further. We have seen users from

Author: :+1:

various domains that weren't anticipated. After hundreds of thousands
of installations, it's our great pleasure to introduce the 1.0
version, fully rewritten to provide a stable and complete API, better
performance, cross-compilation, two compilers, two engines, and many
more advanced features!

* [Improved and simplified API](#improved-and-simplified-api)
* [Compilers and Engines](#compilers-and-engines)
* [Cross-compilation](#cross-compilation)
* [WASI](#wasi)
* [Ready to use on major platforms and
  architectures](#ready-to-use-on-major-platforms-and-architectures)

## Improved and simplified API

We have entirely rewritten the project with a new, improved API. All
the WebAssembly externals are now supported, which includes
`Function`, `Global`, `Memory`, and `Table`. All of them can be used

> as imports or as exports. Well, this is now straighforward.

Author: Didn't know about `ispell`. Thanks for the tips!

> as imports or as exports. Well, this is now straighforward.

Author: :+1:

The `ImportObject` API is now unified and simplified (previously, we

> had 2 distincts API for historical reasons).

Author: Fixed by `ispell` ;-).

An example is worth a thousand words. Let's consider the following

> example that already illustrates many improvements:

Author: :+1:

```go
import "github.com/wasmerio/wasmer-go/wasmer"

> // Create an engine. It's responsible to drive the compilation and the

Author: :+1:

// execution of a WebAssembly module.
engine := wasmer.NewEngine()

// Create a store, that holds the engine.
store := wasmer.NewStore(engine)

> // Create a new module from the text representation of a WebAssembly

Author: :+1:

		  ;; We export an add_one function.
		  (func (export "add_one") (param $x i32) (result i32)
		    local.get $x
		    i32.const 1
		    call $sum))
	`),
)

// Let's create a new host function for `math.sum`.
function := wasmer.NewFunction(
	store,

	// The function signature.
	wasmer.NewFunctionType(
		// Parameters.
		wasmer.NewValueTypes(wasmer.I32, wasmer.I32),
		// Results.
		wasmer.NewValueTypes(wasmer.I32)
	),

	// The function implementation.
	func(args []wasmer.Value) ([]wasmer.Value, error) {
		x := args[0].I32()
		y := args[1].I32()

		return []wasmer.Value{wasmer.NewI32(x + y)}, nil
	},
)

// Let's use the new `ImportObject` API…
importObject := wasmer.NewImportObject()

// … to register the `math.sum` function.
importObject.Register(
	"math",
	map[string]wasmer.IntoExtern{
		"sum": function,
	},
)

// Finally, let's instantiate the module, with all the imports.
instance, _ := wasmer.NewInstance(module, importObject)

// And let's call the `add_one` function!
addOne, _ := instance.Exports.GetFunction("add_one")

result, _ := addOne(41)

assert(result, int32(42))
```

A couple of interesting things can be seen here:

> 1. There is an `Engine` API; more about this in the next section,

Reviewer: unclear of if this is a proper use of `;` or if it should be an m-dash or a comma.

Same below with 
```
no longer receive the famous `context` argument; more on that in a
```

not a big deal though. The other use of `;` looks good though

Author: I've changed for “—”.

2. Host functions are fully implemented in Go; `cgo` is no longer
   necessary when declaring host functions. Moreover, host functions
   no longer receive the famous `context` argument; more on that in a
   second,

3. Host functions can return multiple-values,

4. Host functions can return any error _à la_ Go,

5. The `ImportObject` API allows to register a collection of
   “externals”: `Function`, `Memory` etc., i.e. any type that
   implements the `IntoExtern` interface, to a given namespace (here
   `math`),
   
6. The `Exports` API allows to read any kinds of externals, including
   multiple memories.

> The entire API is more Go idiomatic, and very much simpler to use from

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The entire API is more idiomatic for Go, and very much simpler to use from
```

The "for Go" is not necessary

Author: I've changed for “is more idiomatic”.

our perspective.

### A word about host functions

Previously, a host function had to be declared with a `cgo` mapping:

```go
// extern int32_t sum(void *context, int32_t x, int32_t y);
import "C"

//export sum
func sum(context unsafe.Pointer, x int32, y int32) int32 {
	return x + y
}
```

> Now, a host function no longer needs `cgo`. That's a big
> user-experience improvement! A host function can be any Go functions
> or Go lambda functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, host functions no longer need `cgo`. That's a big
user-experience improvement! A host function can be any Go function
or Go lambda function.
```

Author: :+1:

> Also, a host function can now return an error, which was impossible

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also, host functions can now return errors, which was impossible
```

Author: :+1:

before. It will automatically translate to a WebAssembly trap (with
the new `Trap` API).

> Finally, a host function receive a slice of values and returns another
> slices of values, i.e. it supports multi-values!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, host functions receive and return slices of values, i.e. it supports
multi-values!
```

If this isn't always required you should specify that they "can" do this, as-is it sounds like all host functions must work this way

Author: It's always the case, it's the canonical form for host functions in Go now.
Thanks!

```go
func sum(args []wasmer.Value) ([]wasmer.Value, error) {
	x := args[0].I32()
	y := args[1].I32()

	return []wasmer.Value{wasmer.NewI32(x + y)}, nil
}
```

> Note that a host function manipulates values of kind `Value` to allow
> a more unified API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that host functions manipulate values of type `Value` to allow
a more unified API.
```

Being super pedantic but due to my Haskell exposure, Kind != Type (a Kind describes a type of Type). This notation is also seen in Rust when people talk about adding Higher-Kinded Types (HKTs) to Rust.

Author: True :-p. I conceed. I'm used to use “kind” to get less “type” word frequency.
Thnaks!

> We are talking about the host function implementation. To create a
> proper host function, we use the `NewFunction` function. It is also
> possible to create a new host function with an attached environment
> with `NewFunctionWithEnvironment` which expects a function of the
> following form:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Continuing on the subject of implementing host functions, to create a
proper host function, we use the `NewFunction` function. It is also
possible to create a new host function with an attached environment
with `NewFunctionWithEnvironment` which expects a function of the
following form:
```

Author: Thanks, it sounds much better like this!

```go
type MyEnvironment struct {
	shift int32
}

environment := &MyEnvironment {
	shift: 42,
}

hostFunction := wasmer.NewFunction(
	store,

	// The host function signature.
	wasmer.NewFunctionType(
		wasmer.NewValueTypes(wasmer.I32, wasmer.I32), // two i32 params
		wasmer.NewValueTypes(wasmer.I32), // one i32 result
	),

	// Our environment!
	environment,

	// The function implementation.
	func(environment interface{}, args []wasmer.Value) ([]wasmer.Value, error) {
		// Cast to our environment type, and do whatever we want!
		env := environment.(*MyEnvironment)
		e := env.shift;
		x := args[0].I32()
		y := args[1].I32()

		return []wasmer.Value{wasmer.NewI32(e + x + y)}, nil
	},
)
```

The biggest improvement is that the environment can be anything! No
more restriction due to `cgo`. The user is free to store anything

> needed.

Reviewer: Technically it should be `Send + Sync` because we may share it across threads but we can deal with that later if that has an impact on users

Author: Actually no, it's truely anything. The environment in Go isn't send into Rust! An associated environment index is sent on the Rust side, but the environment stays on the Go side, inside a concurent-locked space. See https://github.com/wasmerio/wasmer-go/blob/011e5004cb286a2a7473387aae193a690f690760/wasmer/function.go#L352-L411.

I had too much issue with environment being sent to Rust, or going through cgo. That's why I've decided to design the new API like this.

### A word about exported functions

The `Exports` API provides the following methods: `GetFunction`,

> `GetMemory`, `GetGlobal` and `GetMemory`, to get an external by its

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`GetMemory`, `GetGlobal` and `GetMemory`, to get an export by its
```

`external` seems too technical, it's unclear what that really is. This change may be less precise but I think it's easier to understand

Author: Agree.

> name (or simply `Get` to get a generic `Extern`).

Reviewer: The wording here sounds a bit like `Get`, in contrast to the `Get*` functions does not need a name to get it

Author: I'm just removing the parenthesis about `Get`. It just introduces more complexity and it's not necessary.

`GetFunction` returns an exported function with a native Go API,
i.e. a function that can be invoked as `addOne(42)`. It's actually an
alias of `GetRawFunction(name).Native()` (including error handling):

* A _raw function_ is represented by the type `Function`,
* A _native function_ is represented by the type `NativeFunction`.

The `Function` type provides more information about the function
itself, whilst `NativeFunction` serves the purpose of being easy to
use as any Go functions.

```go
addOne, _ := instance.Exports.GetRawFunction("add_one")

fmt.Println(addOne.Type())
fmt.Println(addOne.ParameterArity())
fmt.Println(addOne.ResultArity())

result, _ := addOne.Call(41)
// or
addOneNative := addOne.Native()
result, _ := addOneNative(41)
```

> This example illustrates that even if the new API is more Go
> idiomatic, it's not at the price of losing information or features.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example illustrates that even if the new API is more
idiomatic, it's not at the price of losing information or features.
```

Reviewer: Perhaps use a different word than `information` there, maybe "without being less or expressive or losing features"

Author: :+1:

## Compilers and Engines

> Let's talk a moment about compilers and engines. Compilers aim at
> compiling the WebAssembly modules into executable codes. Engines drive
> the compilation _and_ the execution of the WebAssembly modules. This
> design provides a unique flexibility which allows Wasmer to be used in
> various contexts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's talk for a moment about compilers and engines. Compilers aim at
compiling WebAssembly modules into executable code. Engines drive
the compilation _and_ the execution of the WebAssembly modules. This
design provides unique flexibility which allows Wasmer to be used in
various contexts.
```

Author: :+1:

### Cranelift has new companions: Singlepass and LLVM!

The Wasmer runtime provides 3 compilers to compile the WebAssembly
modules into executable codes:

* Singlepass: Super fast compilation times, slow execution times. Not
  prone to JIT-bombs,
  
* Cranelift: Fast compilation times, fast execution times,

* LLVM: Slow compilation times, very fast execution times (close to
  native).

Previously, `wasmer-go` was providing only one compiler:
Cranelift. However, a non-negligible population of our users run small
WebAssemby modules. In that specific case, execution time is not an
issue since it will always be quick, however we must improve the
compilation time. And that's why we are happy to announce that
`wasmer-go` now embeds the Singlepass compiler too by default!

> Double announce: When execution performance really matters for you,
> you can now use the LLVM compiler too! Even if the default
> `libwasmer`s embedded inside `wasmer-go` do not provide a support for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Double announcement: When execution performance really matters to you,
you can now use the LLVM compiler too! Even if the default
`libwasmer` embedded inside `wasmer-go` does not provide a support for
```

Author: :+1:

> LLVM _yet_ (we are working on it), the entire API already support
> it. It is really easy to use your own custom `libwasmer` and build
> against it (see below about the `custom_wasmer_runtime` tag).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
LLVM _yet_ (we are working on it), the entire API already supports
it. It is really easy to use your own custom `libwasmer` and build
against it (see below about the `custom_wasmer_runtime` tag).
```

Author: :+1:

> Cranelift will continue to be the default compiler. To change that

Reviewer: Unrelated but the more I think about it the less like calling our compilers `Cranelift` and `LLVM`. Singlepass has a better name even if it's a lie

Author: It's not good the marketing yeah.

behaviour, one needs to create a new configuration for the engine and
use `Config.UseSinglepassCompiler` or `Config.UseLLVMCompiler`:

```go
// Configure the engine to use the Singlepass compiler.
config := wasmer.NewConfig().UseSinglepassCompiler()
engine := wasmer.NewEngineWithConfig(config)

// Compile the WebAssembly module.
store := wasmer.NewStore(engine)
module, _ := wasmer.NewModule(store, wasmBytes)

// Instantiate it, and something with it.
instance, _ := wasmer.NewInstance(module, wasmer.NewImportObject())
```

It's that simple!

Note: The new `IsCompilerAvailable` function might be your best friend to
test whether a compiler is available.

### JIT and Native engines

The Wasmer runtime also provides 3 engines to compile _and_ to execute

> the WebAssembly modules. In a nutshell:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
WebAssembly modules. In a nutshell:
```

Author: :+1:

* The JIT engine stores the executable code in memory,

* The Native engine stores the executable code in a native shared
  library object (`.so`, `.dylib`, or `.dll` files depending on the
  Operating System it runs),
  
* The Object File engine, which isn't relevant in the context of Go,
  we skip it ([learn

>   more](https://github.com/wasmerio/wasmer/tree/d1bd9eac00a3e1d445499e47d8cb3a632985e0c6/lib/engine-object-file)).

Reviewer: Maybe omit this from the blogpost. This post probably has a ton of information for most people, best to not overload them any more than we already have!

Author: Agree.

> Previously, `wasmer-go` was providing only the JIT engine. Now, it's
> our pleasure to announce that the Native engine is now part of the
> family!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Previously, `wasmer-go` only provided the JIT engine. Now, it's
our pleasure to announce that the Native engine is now also part of the
family!
```

Reviewer: "also" is optional, unsure if it's actually better or not 🤔

Author: :+1:

Note: The Native engine doesn't work with the Singlepass compiler yet.

> The difference is how the executable code is stored, especially when
> serializing and deserializing a compiled WebAssembly module; let's
> see:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The difference between the engines is in how the executable code is stored, especially when
serializing and deserializing a compiled WebAssembly module; let's
see:
```

Author: :+1:

```go
// Configure the engine to use the Cranelift compiler with the Native
// engine.
config := wasmer.NewConfig().UseCraneliftCompiler().UseNativeEngine()
engine := wasmer.NewEngineWithConfig(config)

// Compile the WebAssembly module.
store := wasmer.NewStore(engine)
module, _ := wasmer.NewModule(store, wasmBytes)

// It's time to save this compiled WebAssembly module!
serializedModule, _ := module.Serialize()
_ := ioutil.WriteFile("my_wasm_module.so", serializedModule, 0644)

// … later… in another galaxy, far far away…

serializedModule, _ := ioutil.ReadFile("my_wasm_module.so")
module, _ := wasmer.DeserializeModule(store, serializedModule)

// And instantiate it!
instance, _ := wasmer.NewInstance(module, wasmer.NewImportObject())
```

Deserializing a compiled WebAssembly module with the Native engine is

> generally faster as it requires less operations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
generally faster as it requires fewer operations.
```

Author: :+1:

## Cross-compilation

> The engines and the compilers have a new very interesting feature:
> They can cross-compile. It means that from a machine A with a certain
> CPU, it is possible to compile for another machine B with a different
> CPU. Introducing the `Target`, `Triple` and `CpuFeatures` API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The engines and the compilers have a new, very interesting feature:
They can cross-compile. This means that from machine A with a certain
CPU, it is possible to compile for another machine B with a different
CPU. To do this we're introducing the `Target`, `Triple` and `CpuFeatures` API.
```

Author: :+1:

to compile for an `x86_64-apple-darwin` machine:

```go
// Let's declare the triple of the machine we want to compile for.
triple, _ := wasmer.NewTriple("x86_64-apple-darwin")

// Let's configure the CPU features.
cpuFeatures := wasmer.NewCpuFeatures()
cpuFeatures.Add("sse2")

// Finally, a Target is a pair composed of a Triple and CPU features.
target := wasmer.NewTarget(triple, cpuFeatures)
```

After that, we pass the `Target` to the `Config` API, we compile the
WebAssembly module, and save it:

```go
// Compile for a specific target.
config := wasmer.NewConfig().UseTarget(target)

// Create the engine with a specific configuration.
engine := wasmer.NewEngineWithConfig(config)
store := wasmer.NewStore(engine)

// Let's compile the module for the given target.
module, _ := wasmer.NewModule(store, wasmBytes)

// Serialize the compiled module.
ioutil.Writefile("my_wsam_module.wjit", module.Serialize(), 0644)
```

The serialized compiled module can be then deserialized on the
targeted machine, instantiated, and executed!

That way, it is easier to pre-compile any WebAssembly modules for a
variety of machines!

## WASI

> The `wasmer-go` package now features
> [WASI](https://github.com/WebAssembly/wasi) (The WebAssembly System
> Interface), with all the snapshot previews; understand, all the
> versions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `wasmer-go` package now features
[WASI](https://github.com/WebAssembly/wasi) (The WebAssembly System
Interface) support with all the snapshot previews (that is, all the versions).
```

Author: :+1:

First, the `GetWasiVersion` function can be used to know which version
of WASI a WebAssembly module is using or whether it's not using WASI
at all:

```go
module, _ := wasmer.NewModule(store, wasmBytes)

fmt.Println(GetWasiVersion(module))
```

> Second, to setup WASI, it's required to start by creating a
> `WasiEnvironment` with the help of the `NewWasiStateBuilder` API. The
> generated `WasiEnvironment` object is then used to generate an
> `ImportObject`. This later contains all the imports that “bridge” the
> WebAssembly module to the host to make WASI a reality. Of course, it's
> possible to use this `ImportObject` to import your own host functions,
> memories etc., just like with any `ImportObject`. `WasiEnvironment` is
> also responsible to read the `stdout` and `stderr` streams if they are
> captured.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Second, to setup WASI, we start by creating a
`WasiEnvironment` with the help of the `NewWasiStateBuilder` API. We then use the
generated `WasiEnvironment` object to generate an
`ImportObject`. This contains all the imports that “bridge” the
WebAssembly module to the host to make WASI a reality. Of course, it's
possible to use this `ImportObject` to import your own host functions,
memories etc., just like with any other `ImportObject`. `WasiEnvironment` is
also responsible for redirecting the `stdout` and `stderr` streams if they are
captured.
```

Feel free to change what I said in regards to `redirecting`. depending on how it actually works, that sounded more clear to me though

Author: It does sound clearer. Thanks!

> Let's see with an example. We want to execute [this Rust
> program](https://github.com/wasmerio/wasmer-go/blob/794da4bc5618f7e5f8e6f046d765033372763824/wasmer/testdata/wasi.rs),
> that prints its arguments, its environment variables, and that lists
> the content of its current working directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's see this with an example. We want to execute [this Rust
program](https://github.com/wasmerio/wasmer-go/blob/794da4bc5618f7e5f8e6f046d765033372763824/wasmer/testdata/wasi.rs),
that prints its arguments, its environment variables, and that lists
the contents of its current working directory.
```

Author: :+1:

```go
engine := wasmer.NewEngine()
store := wasmer.NewStore(engine)
module, _ := wasmer.NewModule(store, wasmBytes)

// We specify the program name: `test-program`. We also specify the
// program is invoked with the `--test` argument, in addition to two
// environment variables: `COLOR` and `APP_SHOULD_LOG`. Finally, we map
// the `the_host_current_directory` to the current directory.
wasiEnv, _ := wasmer.NewWasiStateBuilder("wasi-test-program").
	Argument("--test")
	Environment("COLOR", "true")
	Environment("APP_SHOULD_LOG", "false")
	MapDirectory("the_host_current_directory", ".").
	CaptureStdout()
	Finalize()

// Get the import object!

> importObject, _ := wasiEnv.GenerateImportObject(store, module)

Reviewer: Not sure if you mentioned that this will auto-detect the version or not. Not sure if it's worth bringing up

Author: Initially, I was talking about it, but I found it was adding too much information.

Author: I dropped a line:

```go
// Get the import object (WASI version is auto-detected)!
importObject, _ := wasiEnv.GenerateImportObject(store, module)
```

```

At this step, the WebAssembly module is ready to be executed. Which
exported function should be called from the instance to start the
program? Think no longer, and let's use
`Exports.GetWasiStartFunction`:

```go
start, _ := instance.Exports.GetWasiStartFunction()
start()
```

Did you notice that `stdout` is expected to be captured, as defined
by `CaptureStdout` above? Well, here is its content:

```go
stdout := string(wasiEnv.ReadStdout())

fmt.Println(stdout)
```

It prints:

```
Found program name: `wasi_test_program`
Found 1 arguments: --test
Found 2 environment variables: COLOR=true, APP_SHOULD_LOG=false
Found 1 preopened directories: DirEntry("/the_host_current_directory")
```

If `CaptureStdout` isn't called, or if `InheritStdout` is called (its
opposite function), the `stdout` stream from Go will be used
transparently.

## Ready to use on major platforms and architectures

One of the promises of WebAssembly is its _universality_. By design, it
aims at being run anywhere.

`wasmer-go` embeds the Wasmer runtime as native shared object library
(`.so`, `.dylib` etc.) for the following platforms:

* Linux on `amd64`,
* Linux on `arm64`,
* Darwin on `amd64`.

> More is coming very soon, like Windows, Linux with `musl` etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
More is coming very soon, like Windows, Linux with `musl`, and more!
```

Author: :+1:

> If you want a specific Wasmer built, we got you covered with the
> `custom_wasmer_runtime` build tag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to use a custom configuration of Wasmer, we got you covered with the
`custom_wasmer_runtime` build tag.
```

Author: :+1:

```shell
$ # Configure cgo.
$ export CGO_CFLAGS="-I/path/to/include/"
$ export CGO_LDFLAGS="-Wl,-rpath,/path/to/lib/ -L/path/to/lib/ -lwasmer_go"
$ 
$ # Run the tests to check everything is correct.
$ go test -tags custom_wasmer_runtime
```

## Conclusion

> The 1.0 version is more than performance improvements: it provides a
> stable and powerful API that fulfill more people needs. We believe
> that the new design, the 2 compilers, the 2 engines, is a great
> improvement and provide more flexibility.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The 1.0 version is more than performance improvements: it provides a
stable and powerful API that fulfills more people's needs. We believe
that the new API design, the 2 compilers, and the 2 engines are great
improvements that provide more power and flexibility than ever before.
```

Author: :+1:

> With the help of the new cross-compilation API, we believe that it's
> easier than ever to execute WebAssembly anywhere.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And with the help of the new cross-compilation API, we believe that it's
now easier than ever to execute WebAssembly anywhere.
```

Author: :+1:

> Documentation and examples have been meticulously written to help
> users new to WebAssembly, or to help advanced users. We believe it
> will facilitate the usage of WebAssembly in the Go ecosystem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Documentation and examples have been meticulously written to help
users new to WebAssembly, as well as advanced users. We believe it
will facilitate further usage of WebAssembly in the Go ecosystem.
```

Author: :+1:

---
title: 'Wasmer Go embedding 1.0 liftoff'
excerpt: 'Announcing the immediate availability of the Wasmer Go embedding 1.0 version!'
date: '2021-02-22T15:35:07.322Z'
author: Ivan Enderlin
---

We are delighted to announce the availability of the [Wasmer Go
embedding 1.0 version](https://github.com/wasmerio/wasmer-go).

> A little more than 1.5 years, we first release `wasmer-go`, the Wasmer

Reviewer 2: > About 1.5 years ago we released `wasmer-go`, the Wasmer

Author: I've included your suggestion, except the `>` for the quote. We aren't quoting anything here :-).

> A little more than 1.5 years, we first release `wasmer-go`, the Wasmer

Author: :+1:

embedding for Go. The reception by the community was beyond our

> expectations. Back then, it was [the fastest WebAssembly runtime for
> Go](https://medium.com/wasmer/announcing-the-fastest-webassembly-runtime-for-go-wasmer-19832d77c050).

Reviewer 2: We should rephrase this statement. Reading this as it is, it implies Wasmer that is no longer the fastest WebAssembly runtime for go.

Something like:
```suggestion
expectations, the repercussion of launching [the fastest WebAssembly runtime for
Go](https://medium.com/wasmer/announcing-the-fastest-webassembly-runtime-for-go-wasmer-19832d77c050) was a great way to start.
```

Author: :+1:

i.e. a function that can be invoked as `addOne(42)`. It's actually an
alias of `GetRawFunction(name).Native()` (including error handling):

* A _raw function_ is represented by the type `Function`,
* A _native function_ is represented by the type `NativeFunction`.

The `Function` type provides more information about the function
itself, whilst `NativeFunction` serves the purpose of being easy to
use as any Go functions.

```go
addOne, _ := instance.Exports.GetRawFunction("add_one")

fmt.Println(addOne.Type())
fmt.Println(addOne.ParameterArity())
fmt.Println(addOne.ResultArity())

result, _ := addOne.Call(41)
// or
addOneNative := addOne.Native()
result, _ := addOneNative(41)
```

This example illustrates that even if the new API is more Go
idiomatic, it's not at the price of losing information or features.

## Compilers and Engines

Let's talk a moment about compilers and engines. Compilers aim at
compiling the WebAssembly modules into executable codes. Engines drive
the compilation _and_ the execution of the WebAssembly modules. This
design provides a unique flexibility which allows Wasmer to be used in
various contexts.

> ### Cranelift has a new companion: Singlepass!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Cranelift has new companions: Singlepass and LLVM!
```

I think we should also expose LLVM as it is with a small tldr: "we are about to release Wasmer-LLVM in go soon!"
The main reason for this is that the articles stay "untouched" for long, so we want to present the ideal scenario.

Author: I'm not sure LLVM will be embedded inside `libwasmer` _soon_. It has multiple implications. _But_ the Go API already handle LLVM! If we compile `libwasmer` with LLVM, it works. I do it pretty often, and it's tested. I'm updating this section.
